---
title: A selection of papers on numerical linear algebra and parallel computing published in 2019
categories:
- Parallel computing
- Linear algebra
reference: literature-2019
excerpt: "This year has been particularly exciting for the fields of numerical linear algebra and parallel computing. I managed to add 267 entries to my bibliography, which means a new paper about every 1.7 days on average! To me, this is a big step up compared to last year's 56 papers."
comments: true
---

This year has been particularly exciting for the fields of numerical linear algebra and parallel computing. I managed to add 267 entries to my <a class="_e75a791d-denali-editor-page-rtfLink" href="https://github.com/andpic/bibliography" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"><span data-preserver-spaces="true">bibliography</span></a><span data-preserver-spaces="true">, which means a new paper about every 1.7 days on average! To me, this is a big step up compared to last year's 56 papers<span data-preserver-spaces="true">.</span>

This year, I slightly changed my base Google Scholar query to
```algorithm sparse method parallel performance matrix numerical optimization graph```
<p><span data-preserver-spaces="true">and I supplemented the query's results with interesting publications I came across.</span></p>
<h2><span data-preserver-spaces="true">Some general trends</span></h2>
<ul>
<li>Machine/deep learning is still (by far) the most popular application in the fields of numerical linear algebra and parallel computing.</li>
<li>Several papers discuss BLAS-level operations on sparse matrices and show that the community is still looking for good ways to tailor data structures to applications. Parallel graph algorithms are often used in this context to optimise sparse representations.</li>
<li>Machine learning is also being used to select the best data structure to use for a given application. I find this quite interesting, although I think there's value in understanding why some data structures are more suited than others in specific cases.</li>
<li>Mixed-precision algorithms are gaining traction quite quickly, especially on GPUs. Also, the <a href="https://standards.ieee.org/standard/754-2019.html" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">new IEEE standard for floating-point operations</a> was released this year. I'm looking forward to seeing the impact this will have on GPU architectures and the robustness of numerical software.</li>
</ul>
<p>
</p>
{% include content/literature-list-2019.html %}